hi everyone welcome to another episode
of cravings log I'm Karen are made and
today we're making something that's
delicious and healthy the Vietnamese
spring roll I was introduced to this
spring roll a couple of years ago by one
of my co-workers that brought us in for
potluck his parents used to own a
Vietnamese restaurant and I was so taken
back by the beauty of these spring rolls
but also by the taste that I started to
make these at home with many different
fillings and my kids just love it now
the plus point is it's not only healthy
but it's also gluten-free which today is
a big plus to have my sister-in-law is
gluten intolerant and I'm always looking
for recipes that I can serve when she
visits me in the summer so let's get
started I just want to go through the
ingredients really quickly I'm going to
make a very quick dipping sauce and this
dipping sauce is also going to be used
I'm going to use a little bit inside the
spring roll just to give it a little
burst of flavor so I've got about two
teaspoons of hoisin sauce and I've got
another two teaspoons of chili and
garlic sauce and all I'm gonna do is
just mix these two together now you can
also use peanut butter peanut butter
goes really well with hoisin sauce but
since I'm sending this to my kids school
for lunch I'm going to leave out the
peanut butter I've got a fout a pound up
regular tiger shrimp you can also use
white shrimp I prefer my shrimp to be a
little bit bigger but I just got a
medium-sized today and all I do is put
it in a pan with about a tablespoon or
two of water and just let it cook it
doesn't take a long time with a little
bit of salt once that's done I take the
shrimp out and I leave it to cool but
don't throw the stock away because it
has so much flavor even those two
tablespoons of water has a lot of flavor
in it I add some more water to that part
and then I cook my rice vermicelli I've
got about a cup or so of rice vermicelli
and that just adds some additional
flavor to the vermicelli next I'm going
to add arugula you can add regular
lettuce but I find it in google
has a beautiful peppery taste I'm going
to add some mint for freshness I'm gonna
add a little bit of coriander I've got
some chunks of cucumber just cut them in
logs I've got some red pepper that I've
cut into a sort of large confetti pieces
I've got Julian of carrots and I'm going
to add some crab meat now traditional
Vietnamese spring rolls uses pork belly
or ham I'm gonna opt to make this
completely seafood only and so I think
the shrimp and the crab together is a
fantastic combination my kids love it
now lastly we're going to use the rice
paper I've got two sizes here I've got a
small size and a medium size today I'm
going to use a medium size which is
perfect for school lunch or snack but
the small size is lovely to make little
appetizers so you can choose to use
whatever you want I'm not going to talk
too much about the quantity of
ingredients today because I'm not too
fussed about it you can use as little or
as much as you like so I'm simply going
to just mix the two tablespoons of chili
garlic sauce together with the hoisin
the lead this as is or you can add some
freshly chopped coriander to this
totally up to you just going to keep
that aside and next I'm going to work on
the shrimp so here's what you do take
the shrimp put it down on your board
take a really sharp knife and just cut
it all the way through I'm going to do
this to every one of the shrimp and
you're gonna get to Hobbes like this
which are gonna look really pretty in
the spring I've cut all the shrimp and
put it aside and now we're going to
start by softening the rice papers
here's my rice paper it's quite hard
what you need is some kind of container
that's big enough to hold some warm
water now don't make the mistake of
taking a really small container and
trying to shove this thing in there i've
seen some people do that it's just not a
good idea so put it in and let it soak
it only takes literally maybe 30 seconds
or so to soften up and once that's done
I'm going to stuff it up it's nice and
soft I'm gonna take it out put it on my
clean wooden board which I just washed
now we're gonna stuff it so
the first thing that's going to go down
are the shrimp because I want people to
be able to see it when they pick it up
eat with your eyes so here's the shrimp
you're going to use as many as you need
to depending on the size of your shrimp
my shrimp are big I'll use three but
these ones are a little bit smaller than
I plan to use so i'm going to use four
of them i'm going to put in some arugula
you can use regular lettuce but i love
arugula going to add a mentally i'll
stick a cucumber this is gonna add a
nice freshness a little bit of coriander
I'm gonna put in a tiny dab up the sauce
not too much just a little bit some
carrots
I've got some red pepper confetti but
this is quite a large confetti now this
adds a lovely colour to the the voles
I'm going to add a little bit of crab
and finally some rice noodles just on
the time and now the fun part we're
going to roll it I'm gonna try and roll
it without breaking it obviously this
takes some practice but I'm going to
fold it in just like I fold in a spring
roll look how gorgeous that is and then
I'm going to fold it over and we have a
beautiful tight package that's just
bursting with flavor now I'm going to
keep going till I have quite a few done
and ready for lunch
I've got about ten done and I'm just
gonna keep going I've got a fantastic
momentum going I've got one soaking
while I'm rolling the other one I've had
a few along the way they are just staff
delicious they're light and so
fresh-tasting now remember as you're
rolling it to keep wiping down your
board because if you're bored gets
really wet it gets very slippery and
difficult to roll so thank you so much
for joining me see you next time on
creating vlog and please subscribe to my
channel at youtube com / cravings blog
hope to see you soon bye